https://www.gamasutra.com/view/news/373320/Heres_a_sampling_of_what_Victoria_Tran_will_teach_you_in_her_GDC_Masterclass.php#comments
Gamasutra is part of the Informa Tech Division of Informa PLC
This site is operated by a business or businesses owned by Informa PLC and all copyright resides with them. Informa PLC's registered office is 5 Howick Place, London SW1P 1WG. Registered in England and Wales. Number 8860726.
Here's a sampling of what Victoria Tran will teach you in her GDC Masterclass
Next month, expert game marketer Victoria Tran will be teaching her first-ever GDC Masterclass on studio branding. In 2020, it's more essential than ever that game developers know how to effectively communicate with their audiences and help them understand what kind of games they make.
We're so excited for Tran's class that we went ahead and decided to prepare a small lesson for you in advance! The GDC Masterclass program is a chance for students to get one-on-one instruction time with talented industry professionals, and we wanted to share with you how Tran hopes to instruct and guide you on December 3rd.
Here are some of Tran's thoughts on how studios can improve their branding, as shared with a hypothetical marketing expert at an up-and-coming game development studio:
I’m the communications director at a brand-new studio just getting off the ground. We’re small, we’ve got revenue from some contract work, but we’re trying to build a coherent brand that helps us stand out.
We want to make strategy games for Steam, which means we’re competing with Paradox, Sega Europe, and other big developers in that space. What first steps should we take to capture player attention?
That's difficult - and it always will be! The first thing you'll need to do is to do some baseline research -- we're talking market research, competitor research, and understanding your game's value proposition once you've landed on what you're going to make. It's one thing to compare yourself to Paradox, Sega Europe, and other huge developers, but that's almost less important right now.
Who are your competitors when it comes to a production value and budget you can match? That's how you'll need to start researching how your brand and games can stand out.
Thanks Victoria, that’s a good place to start. What do you think we can do to create a unique tone of voice for when we communicate with our players? It feels like there’s a spectrum that runs from "pure software developer" to "Sonic the Hedgehog Twitter account."
More developers are comfortable using "gamer speak" in their branding, but we’re worried about coming off as pandering. Do you have any thoughts on this?”
There are certain "archetypes" a brand voice can fall into - it's all about knowing your own values, who you're looking to talk to, and your own comfort levels. It IS pandering if you do it only because you want to go viral, but there are plenty of ways to meld "gamer speak" in with a voice that is more professional, artistic, or whatever other trait you're hoping to be. (Hint hint this is why soft skills are an overlooked but incredibly valuable skill!)
Oh that’s helpful! That actually brings up a good question about soft skills. When we’re looking to expand our team to work on these particular problems, we’re going to be looking at an array of candidates with different backgrounds and skillsets. What can we do to better identify good soft skills in prospective employees?
Theoretical situations for them to answer (and not just about technical skills, but about how they'd handle certain situations of conflict) are a great tell, but of course that's also what interviews are for.
Often times you'll find particular pain points in your brand and community, and these will be great questions to get someone's read on and see how it aligns with your own company values. (And you SHOULD know your values.)
...And don't forget to pay people for tests like these!
Thanks so much Victoria! This was great.
If these are the kinds of questions you're asking about your studio's future, don't delay. Sign up for Victoria Tran's GDC Masterclass now, before seats are all gone!
For more information on the GDC Masterclass program, be sure to visit our website or subscribe to regular updates via Facebook, Twitter, or RSS.
Gamasutra and GDC are sibling organizations under parent company Informa Tech
Related Jobs
Top Stories
Copyright © 2020 Informa PLC
                            Informa UK Limited is a company registered in England and Wales with company number 1072954
                            whose registered office is 5 Howick Place, London, SW1P 1WG.
