https://gamasutra.com/view/pressreleases/373419/The_first_virtual_videogame_event_in_Latin_America_Gaming_Week_Mexico_was_celebrated_unprecedented.php
Gamasutra is part of the Informa Tech Division of Informa PLC
This site is operated by a business or businesses owned by Informa PLC and all copyright resides with them. Informa PLC's registered office is 5 Howick Place, London SW1P 1WG. Registered in England and Wales. Number 8860726.


Mexico City, november 9, 2020 – During the past weekend was held Gaming Week, the first virtual videogame celebration in Mexico and Latin America, which was possible with the support of some of the main videogames companies as well as the participation of more than 50 experts and key personalities of the industry. The event included conferences, live streamings, esports tournaments and exclusive releases.

The official website, where the event took place, received more than 50,000 unique visitors who had the opportunity to interact and meet with other gamers as well as to compete and learn about the latest news and trends on brands who has specialized equipment to improve the gaming experience.

Some of the most outstanding activities were the tribute to a Mexican iconic personality of the industry Gus Rodríguez, internationally recognized for being one of the most creative minds in the country and who was also an ambassador for Nintendo in Mexico; the presentation of AXOL, a game created by Mexican developers that seeks to help in the preservation of the axolotes; and the fan challenge to the world’s Super Smash Bros Ultimate champion MKLeo were they tried to beat him.

Some of the companies who were part of this year’s edition are Activision, APC by Schneider Electric, Arena, Blizzard Entertainment, Bandai Namco, Konami, NVIDIA, Seaga-te, Square Enix, TCL, Ubisoft, Warner Bros. Games, XPG and Qualcom who brought to the table valuable information and tips.

In addition, on the Esports stage, more than 1,000 competitors participated in five tournaments: Gears of War 5, NBA2K21, Freefire, Fortnite and the iconic and exciting Mortal Kombat 11. The finals took place during the 3 days of the event and in total the awards have worth of more than 48,000 Mexican pesos to the winners.

“We are very happy with the result of this first edition. The greatest referents in the industry came together, at an atypical moment in history. We are sure that it was a celebration that gamers enjoyed because we had a great reach, many registrations and good comments. This confirms the relevance of Gaming in our region, which is becoming more and more relevant to the video game industry worldwide” said Jorge Lizárraga, CEO of Gaming Partners, the event's organizing company.

This first edition of Gaming Week in Mexico was possible thanks to the support of BUBULUBU the main sponsor which is one of the most important brands in the region.

About Gaming Partners - It is the group specialized in gaming marketing with the most experience and trajectory in Latin America. They link the video game industry and consumer brands through consumer-oriented experiences. For 19 years, they have created projects such as the Electronic Game Show (EGS), Liga Mexicana de Videojue-gos, Esports Fest and EDGE Academy among others. In addition, they are the exclusive partner for events, activations and experiences at Arena The Place to Play.
Copyright © 2020 Informa PLC
                            Informa UK Limited is a company registered in England and Wales with company number 1072954
                            whose registered office is 5 Howick Place, London, SW1P 1WG.
