https://www.gamasutra.com/blogs/MikeMarrone/20201106/373281/Issue_69__Editor_Scripting_Behdind_The_Games_and_much_more.php
Gamasutra is part of the Informa Tech Division of Informa PLC
This site is operated by a business or businesses owned by Informa PLC and all copyright resides with them. Informa PLC's registered office is 5 Howick Place, London SW1P 1WG. Registered in England and Wales. Number 8860726.
Issue #69 - Editor Scripting, Behdind The Games, and much more!
*This post was originally published on GameDevDigest.com

Nothing else is going on in the world right now, so might as well learn some game dev. Enjoy!
Unity Services that we actually use - Unity gets flak about how their services suck. I don’t necessarily share the same sentiment. But hey, they’re free and they’re not totally useless. We do use some of them frequently as supporting tools while developing Academia.COFFEE BRAIN GAMES
What is the Unity Asset Store and how to make money on it? - I have been a publisher of the Asset Store for 4 years and would like to share my experience. I’ll tell you all you need to know to create an asset from the point of view of a programmer.Konstantin Saetsky
A Sprite Outline Shader Solution - A thread describing (source included) how to create a desired sprite outline effect (thanks to unitycoder.com for linking)Unity Forums
Working on a Stylized Desert Scene in Unity - Maxence Petitjean briefly talked about a small stylized environment he made in 5 days for an art test.80.lv
How to Make a Game Like Monument Valley - Learn to create a simple click-to-move game where you navigate a series of seemingly impossible platforms like in Monument Valley.raywenderlich.com
ARC-8: devlog #3 - Unity - Some years ago I coded a CHIP-8 emulator in C# just for fun, that emulator was hibernating in a private repository that I never released. Some days ago I started to working on it again with the idea to release it running on Blazor and as a Unity asset where any game developer could drag its prefabs as easter eggs directly to their games.diegogiacomelli.com.br
Creating an InventoryItem Editor Part 2 - In this section, we're going to deal with the issue of how the editor can edit any child without having to know all the details of each child. We're going to do this by taking advantage of an important principle in C# and OOP in general, called Inheritance.blog.gamedev.tv
Retro Console Palettes in Shader Graph - Many people grew up with older consoles and handhelds such as the Game Boy or the SNES. These retro consoles had a limited colour palette, and the art direction of gamed made for these systems reflected the restrictions placed upon artists. Recently, there has been a revival of classic consoles such as these, with Nintendo cashing in on their fans’ nostalgia with the NES and SNES Classic - today, we are going to use Shader Graph to replicate the unique colour palette restrictions of these consoles, starting with the original Game Boy.Daniel Ilett
Parallax - Parallax is a very easy way to give your artwork some depth! Here's a micro-tutorial on how to do this.Alex Ameye @alexanderameye
Fake Mesh Lights - Here's the basics of how I made fake mesh lights with Amplify Shader Editor in UnityEdward del Villar @Ed_dV
Jumping Fish AI | Unity3D - We want to share how we accomplished our giant fish monster in our upcoming game Zenith Falls!gooslimestudios.medium.com
Unity Releases - Unity 2021.1.0 Alpha 4 and Unity 2020.2.0 Beta 10 have been released.Unity
Videos
Behind the Game: Escape from Tarkov | Unite Now 2020 - Escape from Tarkov is a hardcore FPS from Battlestate Games. Hear from COO and project lead, Nikita Buyanov, on their experience moving the project to the latest version of Unity and how they’re using features such as Timeline and ProBuilder to create one of the most-viewed titles on Twitch.Unity
Getting Started with Editor Scripting in Unity! | Tutorial - In this video, we are walking you through the basics of creating Property Drawers and Editor Windows using UI Toolkit.Unity
Design Pattern: Singletons in Unity - In this video we'll see what a Singleton is, why we should or should not use it, and how to implement a singleton pattern in Unity.samyam
Making a Hull Outline Shader in Unity URP Using Renderer Features and Culling! | Game Dev Tutorial - Outlines are a fun technique to add style to your game and pair perfectly with toon shaders. There are a variety of ways to implement them, and in this video, I look at one of them. I use a renderer feature to render a mesh twice, extruding the "hull" to create an outline. In the process, I write a script to handle sharp corners.Ned Makes Games
Quest Link in Unity - How to Use Unity's play mode with Oculus Quest Link - How to set up Oculus Quest Link for Unity's play mode. Go in and out of play mode for your VR game without needing to build and deploy to your device!GameDevBill
Tails of Iron: How Odd Bug used 2D lights to create mood | Unite Now 2020 - Martin Reimann, environment artist and art director at Odd Bug Studio, discusses his development process for crafting a scene in their game, Tails of Iron. You learn how Unity's new 2D light system and their own tools combined to create the sublime environments in the Tails of Iron world.Unity
Deep dive into the sound design and music of DARQ | Unite Now 2020 - Discover the atmospheric sound design and music of DARQ, the critically acclaimed game from Unfold Games. Go behind the scenes to learn all about the audio implementation powered by FMOD.Unity
Unity VFX Graph - Lightning Shader Effect Tutorial - Today's project is Lightning effects with Shader Graph and VFX Graph. This procedurally generated lightning is done with Shader Graph and then we create a few particle effects with VFX Graph.Gabriel Aguiar Prod.
2D Tips - Lightning round | Unite Now 2020 - Get ready for a fast round of productivity tips and performance tricks for 2D projects. We show you how to get the most out of our 2D tools and ensure your project takes advantage of the latest best practices.Unity
Test Smarter, Not Harder Game Simulation & Anipang 4 | Unite Now 2020 - Learn about Unity Game Simulation, and discover how Korean developer SundayTOZ leveraged Game Simulation to replace their unwieldy in-house testing solution, automating hundreds of hours of game balance testing across hundreds of levels – at a fraction of the cost and complexity.Unity
Designing A Responsive Tooltip System in Unity - Tooltips are a fundamental part of Game UI design but it can be tricky to make them look good, let's take a look at how to design a smart and responsive Tooltip system that will resize and position itself on screen relative to its content!Game Dev Guide
How to Make a Game - Drawing with LineRenderer in Unity3D - Learn how to use a linerender in unity to create a simple drag indicator.Jason Weimann
3 Tips to Escape Unity Inspector Panel Hell - The Unity Inspector Panel is powerful but can quickly become a liability. In this video I will share 3 Tips for organizing and making your game dev workflow more efficient.Lost Relic Games
Procedural Water Ripples in Unity using Shader Graph Only - This is a tutorial on creating procedural water ripples using Shader Graph without any textures (never done before ... I think)AE Tuts
Quick Tip ~ Enter Play Mode Faster & Speed Up Development in Unity 2020 - Here's how you can launch play mode much faster while testing development for your Unity games with a single setting. Disabling Domain Reloading and Scene Reloading will make certain aspects of play mode not work exactly like the actual build of the game but for most aspects of testing the game itself, this is a huge boost to development speed.Chris' Tutorials
Unity 3d FPS Game Tutorial - Minimap (11) - How to create a minimap.pablo
Assets
Mega Bundle X Unity Sale - You can save more than 90% off three curated sets of powerful tools and assets from October 21, through November 11. Mega Bundles
$9.99 Bundle - save up to 93%
This bundle contains: The Combat Collection PRO edition, Fantasy Horde - Orc, GOLEM, Low Poly Micro Monster Pack, and Oak Trees Package.
$24.99 Bundle - save up to 93%
This bundle contains everything from the $9.99 bundle, plus Frozen GUI Pack, Top-Down Assets, PoolManager, UI - Builder, and Tower Defense Toolkit 4 (TDTK-4).
$35.99 Bundle - save up to 95%
This bundle contains everything from the $9.99 and $24.99 bundles, plus Procedural UI Image, SUIMONO Water System, SimpleSQL, Script Inspector 3, Vectrosity, UniStorm - Volumetric Clouds, Sky, Modular Weather, and Cloud Shadows, Edy's Vehicle Physics, Master Audio: AAA Sound, EasyRoads3D Pro v3, and Toon Racing.Unity Affiliate
HUMBLE ULTIMATE FANTASY GAME DEVELOPMENT BUNDLE - We've teamed up with Infinity PBR for our newest bundle! Get top-quality character assets like Dragons, Humans, Armor, a complete Lock-picking set, Spiders, and Mimics & more. Built for Unity and Unreal, these packs come with mesh morphing, concept art, custom sound effects, re-mixable music and Substance Painter source files for customizing textures. Plus, your purchase will support DoSomething.org and World Land Trust!
$917 WORTH OF AWESOME STUFF. PAY $1 OR MOREHumble Bundle Affiliate
Kingdom: Classic (FREE GAME) - In Kingdom, each coin spent can tip the balance between prosperity and decay. Attend to your domain, border to border, or venture into the wild to discover its wonders and its threats. Master the land, build your defenses, and when the darkness comes, stand with your people, crown on your head, until the very end. Gameplay Kingdom is a 2D sidescrolling strategy/resource management hybrid with a minimalist feel wrapped in a beautiful, modern pixel art aesthetic. Play the role of a king or queen atop their horse and enter a procedurally generated realm primed to sustain a kingdom, then toss gold to peasants and turn them into your loyal subjects in order to make your kingdom flourish. Protect your domain at night from the greedy creatures looking to steal your coins and crown, and explore the nearby, mysterious forests to discover curious and cryptic artifacts to aid your kingdom. [Grab this for free until Nov. 10]Humble Bundle Affiliate
unitytips: Scene Selection Toolbar - I created a gist, called Scene Selection Toolbar, that uses the Unity Toolbar Extender and allows us to have a dropdown with the most used scenes right on the side of the Play button.diegogiacomelli.com.br Open Source
WiggleIntoPlace - I've used this wiggle-in-place script several times now in different projects, figured it might be useful for others as well. So feel free to copy and use the code commented below.Sou'wester Winds @SouwesterWinds Open Source
AssetDatabaseExt.cs - Unity Editor helper methods to get Prefabs with one or more specific components from the assets database.Ariel Coppes Open Source
PrefabPainter2D.cs - Check out EditorTool class in #unity, it's a hidden gem that lets you create your own tools (think 'Scale tool', 'Move tool', etc) super quick. I just discovered it & after a couple of hours I have my very own 2D prefabs painterSiarhei Pilat @SiarheiPilat Open Source
NewObjectBottomOfHierarchy.cs - Annoyed that every time you drag and drop a prefab to the Scene in #unity, it's placed to a "random" place in the Hierarchy? This simple script will automagically move all dropped gameobjects to the very bottom.Siarhei Pilat @SiarheiPilat Open Source
Shader Graph Custom Lighting - Some custom lighting functions/sub-graphs for Shader Graph, Universal Render Pipeline. v8.2.0, Unity 2020.1.2f1. (Hopefully works in other versions? If anything breaks, let me know by opening an issue)
Includes Sub Graphs for :
Included Examples :Cyanilux Open Source
Unity Physarum Compute Shader - A basic implementation of the Physarum Polycephalum (AKA Slime Mold) code in Unity.
Much of this logic comes from Sage Jenson's slime-mold notes found here: https://sagejenson.com/physarum
Many of the compute-shader techniques used here were learned in Arsiliath's computeshader workshop. https://twitter.com/arsiliathkittrick
Mastering Animation By CRC Press - We've teamed up with CRC Press for our newest bundle! Get ebooks like Dream Worlds: Production Design For Animation, Directing for Animation: Everything You Didn't Learn in Art School, Animated Life: A Lifetime of tips, tricks, techniques and stories from an animation Legend, Make Toons That Sell Without Selling Out, and Writing for Animation, Comics, and Games. Plus, your purchase will support the Hero Initiative! $1,037 WORTH OF AWESOME STUFF PAY $1 OR MOREHumble Bundle Affiliate
Spotlight
MARS 2000 - MARS 2000 is a realtime strategy inspired by Command and Conquer series. It is developed by Space Crab Development.
This game offers you a brutal and balanced gameplay in a dieselpunk setting. Deceptively recognizable mechanics, that will show you lots of new tasty things, when you try them.
[You can follow the development on their Twitter or Patreon]Space Crab Development
You can subscribe to the free weekly newsletter on GameDevDigest.com
This post includes affiliate links; I may receive compensation if you purchase products or services from the different links provided in this article.
Related Jobs
Copyright © 2020 Informa PLC
                            Informa UK Limited is a company registered in England and Wales with company number 1072954
                            whose registered office is 5 Howick Place, London, SW1P 1WG.
