https://www.gamasutra.com/blogs/MikeMarrone/20201023/372473/Game_Dev_Digest_Issue_67__The_Recreate_Issue.php#comments
Gamasutra is part of the Informa Tech Division of Informa PLC
This site is operated by a business or businesses owned by Informa PLC and all copyright resides with them. Informa PLC's registered office is 5 Howick Place, London SW1P 1WG. Registered in England and Wales. Number 8860726.
Game Dev Digest Issue #67 - The Re-create Issue
*This post was originally published on GameDevDigest.com

A little late this friday, but better late than never. Enjoy the latest content!
New Unity Input System: Getting Started - In this Unity Input System tutorial, you’ll learn how to convert player input in your existing projects from the old Input Manager to the new Input System.raywenderlich.com
Unity For Humanity Summit 2020 - The Unity for Humanity Summit is a free, two-day online event that brings together creators, activists, nonprofits, funders, philanthropists, and brands who are harnessing real-time 3D technology to power social impact and real-world change.Unity
Unity Game Growth Program: Tips & Tricks - In this post, I will list some tips and tricks that I learned while applying my game Puzzimals to the Unity Game Growth Program.diegogiacomelli.com.br
Creating an InventoryItem EditorWindow - This series of blog posts will be devoted to the creation of an InventoryItem editor, using some of the skills taught in the first section of the RPG: Dialogues and Questing 2 course. It relies on the code taught in the RPG:Inventory Systems course.blog.gamedev.tv
Unity Releases - Unity versions 2021.1.0 Alpha 2 and 2020.2.0 Beta 8 have been released.Unity
Videos
The Diablo 3 VFX Shader with Unity. [Shadergraph and Amplify] - In this tutorial we're using both shadergraph and amplify shader editor to build a Diablo 3 inspired VFX shader, based on a GDC talk by Julian Love from 2013 where he describes a magical "blend add shader".PolyToots
How AppQuantum used GameTune to optimize their game | Unite Now 2020 - GameTune is Unity’s machine learning product for optimizing games and player experiences. In this video, AppQuantum's Product team walks you through their GameTune implementation and shares their learnings and best practices.Unity
Scripting Improvements in Unity 2019 LTS & 2020.1 - In this video, we compiled the most recent Scripting Improvements from Unity 2019 LTS and 2020.1Unity
Skeleton Crew: Empowering designers with modular game design | Unite Now 2020 - For upcoming gothic platformer Skeleton Crew, a modular approach to components, scriptable objects, and Unity events was key. In this video, Cinder Cone’s Lawrence Bishop digs into how this modular approach empowered designers and facilitated co-op multiplayer integration.Unity
Version Control for games with Unity's Plastic SCM | Unite Now 2020 - Does your team need better version control? Learn about one of the newest members of the Unity family, Plastic SCM – an industry-leading version control solution for any team, any industry, and any engine.Unity
Geometry Shaders Made Easy If You've Only Written Shader Graphs! Unity URP | Game Dev Tutorial - Geometry shaders are special shaders that can add, remove, and modify mesh triangles from the GPU, allowing you to create efficient deformation effects and procedurally constructed models. You can use them for grass, fur, wireframes, particles and more. These shaders, unfortunately, cannot be written in a shader graph, so I'll walk you through writing one in code!Ned Makes Games
I Remake my Favorite Mobile Game in 5 Days! - Lately I started play BulletEcho on my mobile device and it is a great game with cool mechanics, and I can say it is my new favorite mobile game for the time.EEDev
How To Animate Characters In Unity 3D | Animation Layers Explained - Learn the fundamentals of animating characters with Unity's animation layers, and understand how & why it all works!Nicky B
Procedural Punch to Target Animation (Unity 2020) - HOw would you like to know how to animate a character to always punch toward any target in a scene? How to pick up any object they can reach? You dont want to use a canned animation because the scene placement maybe off a little. A solution is to mix the canned animation with a procedural one. Mic the canned animation with an Implementation of real-time inverse kinematics in Unity using the animation rigging package.Omar Santiago
Unity Tutorial - Sculpt, Texture & Paint Assets on the Mesh - You will learn how to sculpt the mesh, paint textures, vertex colors, and scatter assets on any mesh in Unity 2020 using Polybrush which is a part of Unity now!LMHPOLY
Re-created Sombra Hacking Logo Visual Effect Using Shader Graph in Unity Engine - In this video we will show how to re-create Sombra hack logo visual effect using Shader Graph in Unity engine.Binary Lunar
Unity VFX Graph - Loot Drop Effect Tutorial - Today's project is Loot Drop effects in 5 levels of importance. They are made with only 1 VFX Graph which is super useful. There's also a Loot Box tutorial: https://youtu.be/CKtazkqsGRAGabriel Aguiar Prod.
Assets
Mega Bundle X Unity Sale - You can save more than 90% off three curated sets of powerful tools and assets from October 21, through November 11. Mega Bundles
$9.99 Bundle - save up to 93%
This bundle contains: The Combat Collection PRO edition, Fantasy Horde - Orc, GOLEM, Low Poly Micro Monster Pack, and Oak Trees Package.
$24.99 Bundle - save up to 93%
This bundle contains everything from the $9.99 bundle, plus Frozen GUI Pack, Top-Down Assets, PoolManager, UI - Builder, and Tower Defense Toolkit 4 (TDTK-4).
$35.99 Bundle - save up to 95%
This bundle contains everything from the $9.99 and $24.99 bundles, plus Procedural UI Image, SUIMONO Water System, SimpleSQL, Script Inspector 3, Vectrosity, UniStorm - Volumetric Clouds, Sky, Modular Weather, and Cloud Shadows, Edy's Vehicle Physics, Master Audio: AAA Sound, EasyRoads3D Pro v3, and Toon Racing.Unity Affiliate
HUMBLE ULTIMATE FANTASY GAME DEVELOPMENT BUNDLE - We've teamed up with Infinity PBR for our newest bundle! Get top-quality character assets like Dragons, Humans, Armor, a complete Lock-picking set, Spiders, and Mimics & more. Built for Unity and Unreal, these packs come with mesh morphing, concept art, custom sound effects, re-mixable music and Substance Painter source files for customizing textures. Plus, your purchase will support DoSomething.org and World Land Trust!
$917 WORTH OF AWESOME STUFF. PAY $1 OR MOREHumble Bundle Affiliate
Custom Hierarchy for Unity [free] - Hi, I’m Febucci and I’ve created this package to help having a clearer Hierarchy in Unity, organizing everything in a “tree view” and including extra informations like Components Icons and groups/divisors.febucci Open Source
Mathfs - Expanded Math Functionality for Unity. Features:
open-unity.sh - This bash script opens a Unity project from the command line. I wrote this because I needed to redirect Unity's logs to a known, sane place, and not lose them every time Unity crashed or restarted. It kinda grew from there.
It can autodetect what the current build target is for a project, what Unity version is it set to, what Unity versions you have installed on your system, and it will try its best to open a project with the correct settings. It will also redirect Unity logs to a Logs folder in the project, and rotate them on every run, so no loga are ever lost.shana Open Source
ConeCastAll extension method - A Unity3d ConeCastAll extension method for the Physics class. Use this to find colliders within a cone-shaped volume. It uses SphereCastAll, which is like a RayCast tube, but then it uses Vector3.Angle to filter out hitpoints according to a cone.walterellisfun Open Source
ShortcutLevelLoader.cs - Cycles through build scenes directly in the editor. Loads scenes in Unity according to their build order, using 'Shift' and left and right arrow keys.SiarheiPilat Open Source
URP_GrassGeometryShader - Example of a Grass Geometry Shader for Unity, Universal Render Pipeline. Based on https://github.com/IronWarrior/UnityGrassGeometryShaderCyanilux Open Source
Spotlight
The makers of Skeleton Crew reveal details of upcoming beta in exclusive Creator Spotlight session - Today Unity is thrilled to premiere our Creator Spotlight series with an in-depth conversation with Cinder Cone, the studio behind the highly anticipated upcoming gothic platformer Skeleton Crew.
Set against the backdrop of a gothic hellscape, Skeleton Crew is a platform brawler that allows players to use everything (and everyone) to smash their way to victory. Players can line up trick shots and give a good hard kick to launch anything, including enemies, and up to four of their friends in co-op to wreak havoc on the environment and inflict carnage on their enemies.Unity
You can subscribe to the free weekly newsletter on GameDevDigest.com
This post includes affiliate links; I may receive compensation if you purchase products or services from the different links provided in this article.
Related Jobs
Copyright © 2020 Informa PLC
                            Informa UK Limited is a company registered in England and Wales with company number 1072954
                            whose registered office is 5 Howick Place, London, SW1P 1WG.
