https://www.gamasutra.com/blogs/author/AndreasPapathanasis/942079/
Gamasutra is part of the Informa Tech Division of Informa PLC
This site is operated by a business or businesses owned by Informa PLC and all copyright resides with them. Informa PLC's registered office is 5 Howick Place, London SW1P 1WG. Registered in England and Wales. Number 8860726.
Andreas Papathanasis's Blog
I am a game developer based in Edmonton, Canada. Over the past decade, I have worked with two world-class studios - BioWare and Supercell, on various technical, design and production roles. These are two radically different companies, each with huge strengths but also some weaknesses, but they are both very successful because they have made amazing games and series that players around the world enjoy playing for years. My experiences with them have exposed me to very diverse teams, methodologies, schools of thought within the games industry. They also gave me the opportunity to work on two of my favourite games of all time, Clash of Clans and Dragon Age: Origins.
I am currently working on Hades' Star and Battleship Apollo. At the same time, I am looking to create the right environment for a small team of exceptional individuals to thrive and create great social games. I am actively looking to partner up with other passionate developers across the world, and I believe writing down my thoughts on this blog will help other people decide whether they want to work with me. Not that I'm looking for people who agree with everything I say (quite the opposite, I'd prefer people who constantly challenge my views). But what I *am* looking for, and won't compromise on, is people who share a similar passion for specific kinds of games.
If you are a developer and/or player with feedback on any on my posts, please get in touch.
@APapathanasis
Expert Blogs
Andreas Papathanasis's Comments
I doubt Epic 's main ...
there is a growing demand ...
Same problem with our app. ...
Here 's an explanation you ...
The only monetization method I ...
There 's also the classic ...
Copyright © 2020 Informa PLC
                            Informa UK Limited is a company registered in England and Wales with company number 1072954
                            whose registered office is 5 Howick Place, London, SW1P 1WG.
