https://www.gamasutra.com/blogs/author/WinifredPhillips/930735/
Gamasutra is part of the Informa Tech Division of Informa PLC
This site is operated by a business or businesses owned by Informa PLC and all copyright resides with them. Informa PLC's registered office is 5 Howick Place, London SW1P 1WG. Registered in England and Wales. Number 8860726.
Winifred Phillips's Blog
Music Connection Magazine hailed Winifred Phillips as a “Superstar of video game music.” Her credits include games in five of the most popular franchises in gaming: Assassin’s Creed, God of War, Total War, LittleBigPlanet and The Sims. Phillips’ music has been featured in trailers for blockbuster movies such as Avengers Endgame and The Jungle Book, as well as television programs such as Anthony Bourdain’s Parts Unknown. Music from Phillips’ award-winning Assassin’s Creed Liberation score is currently being performed live by a top 80-piece orchestra and choir as part of the Assassin’s Creed Symphony World Tour, which kicked off in June 2019 with its Paris premiere.
Phillips' other video game credits include the Homefront: The Revolution shooter, six games in the LittleBigPlanet franchise (including LittleBigPlanet 3), God of War, Total War Battles: Kingdom, The Da Vinci Code, Charlie and the Chocolate Factory, Speed Racer, Shrek the Third, SimAnimals, and Spore Hero, among many others.  Among her 18 soundtrack albums is the first videogame soundtrack ever released by WaterTower Music, the film music record label of Warner Bros. Pictures.
Phillips has received an Interactive Achievement Award / D.I.C.E. Award from the Academy of Interactive Arts and Sciences, three Hollywood Music in Media Awards, six Game Audio Network Guild Awards, five Global Music Awards, an IGN Best Score Award, a GameSpot Best Music Award, a GameZone Score of the Year Award, a GameFocus Award, and three Gracie Awards from the Alliance of Women in Media.
Phillips is the author of the bestselling book, A COMPOSER'S GUIDE TO GAME MUSIC (The MIT Press), which won the Global Music Award Gold Medal for an exceptional book in the field of music, and was described by The Boston Globe as "the first book designed to help experienced musicians brave the transition to the world of game composing." Phillips' popular game music book was also hailed by Sound on Sound magazine as "partly educational and partly inspirational... a great introduction to this specialist art." Music Connection Magazine added that "Phillips' hands-on insights and advice make this one a keeper," and Film Score Monthly praised the book as "a touchstone academic achievement."
Expert Blogs
Winifred Phillips's Comments
Thanks so much, Andreas ...
Thanks, Pablo ...
Thanks very much, Ron Glad ...
Hey, Mike You make an ...
Very interesting, Tim We can ...
You 're welcome, Pieter Happy ...
Copyright © 2020 Informa PLC
                            Informa UK Limited is a company registered in England and Wales with company number 1072954
                            whose registered office is 5 Howick Place, London, SW1P 1WG.
