https://www.gamasutra.com/view/news/373213/Video_Making_great_key_art_for_your_games_front_end.php#comments
Gamasutra is part of the Informa Tech Division of Informa PLC
This site is operated by a business or businesses owned by Informa PLC and all copyright resides with them. Informa PLC's registered office is 5 Howick Place, London SW1P 1WG. Registered in England and Wales. Number 8860726.
Video: Making great key art for your game's front end
For any developer looking to hook their players on a unique, interesting game, the key art that players encounter when they boot up the game is one of the most important tools available.
In this 2018 GDC talk, Ubisoft's David Monroe discusses the process for making great key art that will greet your players before they begin their journey with your game.
It's a helpful talk for game artists looking to understand how players respond to to key art before they've even had a chance to start a game. You can watch it for free in the video above or on the GDC YouTube channel.
About the GDC Vault
In addition to this presentation, the GDC Vault and its accompanying YouTube channel offers numerous other free videos, audio recordings, and slides from many of the recent Game Developers Conference events, and the service offers even more members-only content for GDC Vault subscribers.

Those who purchased All Access passes to recent events like GDC already have full access to GDC Vault, and interested parties can apply for the individual subscription via a GDC Vault subscription page. Group subscriptions are also available: game-related schools and development studios who sign up for GDC Vault Studio Subscriptions can receive access for their entire office or company by contacting staff via the GDC Vault group subscription page. Finally, current subscribers with access issues can contact GDC Vault technical support.
Related Jobs
Top Stories
Copyright © 2020 Informa PLC
                            Informa UK Limited is a company registered in England and Wales with company number 1072954
                            whose registered office is 5 Howick Place, London, SW1P 1WG.
