https://www.gamasutra.com/view/news/373089/Friday_the_13th_The_Game_winds_down_with_final_patch_end_of_dedicated_servers.php
Gamasutra is part of the Informa Tech Division of Informa PLC
This site is operated by a business or businesses owned by Informa PLC and all copyright resides with them. Informa PLC's registered office is 5 Howick Place, London SW1P 1WG. Registered in England and Wales. Number 8860726.
Friday the 13th: The Game winds down with final patch, end of dedicated servers
Friday the 13th: The Game will see both its final update and the discontinuation of its dedicated servers this month, a light wind-down that follows a complicated legal dispute over the Friday the 13th copyright.
Lead community developer Matt Shotcha notes in a forum post that the game itself will still be playable through peer-to-peer matches and the game will remain up for sale, but the dev team won’t be releasing any future bug fixes or patches after the next update drops.
“The team at Gun wants to thank each and every player and fan that has made Friday the 13th: The Game what it is today,” writes Shotcha. “We know this news is hard to hear, despite being inevitable. We appreciate each and every one of you.”
While the November update puts and end to content tweaks and bug fixes, Friday the 13th: The Game itself hasn’t seen new content for a couple years. The team at Gun Media was ultimately forced to cancel its DLC plans back in 2018 over a copyright dispute between two key creators behind the original Friday the 13th film. Following that, Gun later scrapped future content plans altogether months later due to the unfortunate state of limbo that dispute landed the game in.
"Development on games can’t just pause indefinitely and pick back up again; it doesn't work that way," said Gun Media founder Wes Keltner in a 2018 statement. "Especially when you have no idea when that future date will occur. We can’t keep building content that may never see the light of day."
Related Jobs
Top Stories
Copyright © 2020 Informa PLC
                            Informa UK Limited is a company registered in England and Wales with company number 1072954
                            whose registered office is 5 Howick Place, London, SW1P 1WG.
