https://www.gamasutra.com/view/news/373324/Get_a_job_Join_Airship_Syndicate_as_a_Junior_to_Mid_Programmer.php#comments
Gamasutra is part of the Informa Tech Division of Informa PLC
This site is operated by a business or businesses owned by Informa PLC and all copyright resides with them. Informa PLC's registered office is 5 Howick Place, London SW1P 1WG. Registered in England and Wales. Number 8860726.
Get a job: Join Airship Syndicate as a Junior to Mid Programmer
The Gamasutra Job Board is the most diverse, active and established board of its kind for the video game industry!

Here is just one of the many, many positions being advertised right now.
Junior to Mid Programmer, Airship Syndicate
Location: Austin, Texas
We're currently working on an unannounced PC/console title featuring a new and original IP, and need a gameplay programmer to help bring it to life.
If you've got the experience and enjoy working with a focused group of talented and passionate game devs, then we're the place for you.
RESPONSIBILITIES:
REQUIREMENTS:
PLUSES:
SOME OF THE BENEFITS WE OFFER:
PLUS...
Please note, due to a high volume of applicants we cannot reply to each individually. Only those in consideration for a position will receive a reply. Thank you!
Interested? Apply now.
About the Gamasutra Job Board
Whether you're just starting out, looking for something new, or just seeing what's out there, the Gamasutra Job Board is the place where game developers move ahead in their careers.

Gamasutra's Job Board is the most diverse, most active, and most established board of its kind in the video game industry, serving companies of all sizes, from indie to triple-A.

Looking for a new job? Get started here. Are you a recruiter looking for talent? Post jobs here.
Related Jobs
Top Stories
Copyright © 2020 Informa PLC
                            Informa UK Limited is a company registered in England and Wales with company number 1072954
                            whose registered office is 5 Howick Place, London, SW1P 1WG.
