https://www.gamasutra.com/view/news/373144/Get_a_job_Join_Hit_Factor_as_an_Engineering_Lead.php
Gamasutra is part of the Informa Tech Division of Informa PLC
This site is operated by a business or businesses owned by Informa PLC and all copyright resides with them. Informa PLC's registered office is 5 Howick Place, London SW1P 1WG. Registered in England and Wales. Number 8860726.
Get a job: Join Hit Factor as an Engineering Lead
The Gamasutra Job Board is the most diverse, active and established board of its kind for the video game industry!

Here is just one of the many, many positions being advertised right now.
Game Studio Engineering Lead, Hit Factor
Location: Remote
Are you constantly doing diving saves for your entire team? Have you been passed over for promotion because you have been too busy rescuing your product over and over? We would like to talk to you right now about getting the rewards for your hard work.
We are Hit Factor and we are looking for an enthusiastic and ambitious technical leader to join our team in building fantastic games. Game development leadership positions are exceptionally rare and this will be a career defining opportunity.
WHAT YOU WILL BE DOING
REQUIREMENTS
NICE TO HAVE
Interested? Apply now.
About the Gamasutra Job Board
Whether you're just starting out, looking for something new, or just seeing what's out there, the Gamasutra Job Board is the place where game developers move ahead in their careers.

Gamasutra's Job Board is the most diverse, most active, and most established board of its kind in the video game industry, serving companies of all sizes, from indie to triple-A.

Looking for a new job? Get started here. Are you a recruiter looking for talent? Post jobs here.
Related Jobs
Top Stories
Copyright © 2020 Informa PLC
                            Informa UK Limited is a company registered in England and Wales with company number 1072954
                            whose registered office is 5 Howick Place, London, SW1P 1WG.
