https://www.gamasutra.com/blogs/RakshakMeena/20201104/373177/How_The_Online_Gaming_Revolution_is_Changing_the_Industry_Today.php
Gamasutra is part of the Informa Tech Division of Informa PLC
This site is operated by a business or businesses owned by Informa PLC and all copyright resides with them. Informa PLC's registered office is 5 Howick Place, London SW1P 1WG. Registered in England and Wales. Number 8860726.
How The Online Gaming Revolution is Changing the Industry Today
Over the last few  years, the gaming industry has seen a a great rise in both gamers as well as games. Gone are the days where gamers would enjoy RPG games like Price of Persia. The world is entering a new and multifaceted dimension of online gaming today.
The release of various games and their many multiplayer and online gaming options has set the tone for the industry today.Over a decade ago, LAN style gaming first revolutionized this industry with cult classics like Left4 Dead and Blur wherein players would tune in to gaming parlors and play for hours. Consequently, as data, bandwidth, and the online world's overall infrastructure have evolved, gaming has evolved with it. Today, online gaming is exclusively reaching all parts of the world. Gamers can play all kinds of online games without needing a stellar internet connection.
Today, you will see gamers sitting in the comfort of their own homes, enjoying various games over the internet. The introduction of online immersive player v player gaming also tremendously helps the industry break the metaphorical ‘Gaming’ glass wall. New age caming has transcended the borders of sexism and the stereotypes that existed in the gaming world before. Today, gamers emerge form almost every corner of the globe to show the world what they’ve got. Now, with people worldwide famous for their skills, there are seemingly never-ending tournaments and a constant neck to neck difficulty which players and audience Enjoy.
An excellent example of this is the ongoing Youtube gaming revolution. For many years now, Youtube gaming enthusiasts have enjoyed their favourite YouTubers like Markiplier and PewdiePie, who would play games and put them forth with high entertainment value. Along with this, online gaming tournaments like FIFA and Clash of Clans are enjoyed via Youtube live streams by people worldwide. Over time, this has almost fully become status quo today as Youtube gaming tournament go live almost every hour.
GTA and FIFA have created their pedigree in this field with their incredible online gaming experienceswhich the users cannot get enough of. PUBG and Fortnite have also made incredible strides in this, and the concept of Battle Royale challenges has now become synonymous with fun. The sports world has created its own high tech version of gaming fun with their player immersive branding and advertising. In a lockdown, when the world was forced to sit at home and not enjoy live action sports, FIFA and NBA tournaments played by real-life players became quite a fad with LaLiga (The Spanish Football Main Division) even hosting free live streams of the same.
The most recent cross play feature news that came with the launch of PS5 has been predicted to revolutionize online gaming in the near future further. For years now, steam or origin players couldn't cross-play online via alternate different consoles. This caused massive logistic issues between two people who had the same game but on different consoles. Fixing it would mean that one would have to procure that game on a certain console, which felt unfair. Starting with the PS5 launch, a new world of games is now ready to be cross played online across various platforms. This gives gamers complete liberty over their gaming style and allows for more competitive environments to form.
The new cross play features are expected to be coupled with the various new PS5 features. Early gamers have already begun praising the new PS5 and its new haptic feedback technology which provides for a whole new experience and should transcend very well into the world of online gaming.
A recent online gaming survey has estimated that since the inception of online games like Fortnite and PUBG, girl gamers have increased by a massive 58%. This means that gaming is becoming a nonsexist environment where people of all genders can enjoy gaming.
Overall, it can easily be argued that online gaming has revolutionized the gaming world by reducing barriers, bringing people together, and letting them game on their own terms. What is even better is that this is not even the peak of online gaming. With the PS5 launch and the new XBOX series releasing worldwide soon, there are expected to be major multiplayer opportunities arising across the world of gaming.
Related Jobs
Copyright © 2020 Informa PLC
                            Informa UK Limited is a company registered in England and Wales with company number 1072954
                            whose registered office is 5 Howick Place, London, SW1P 1WG.
