https://gamasutra.com/view/pressreleases/373420/Ashes_of_Creation_Raises_Over_80K_During_Extra_Life_Event.php
Gamasutra is part of the Informa Tech Division of Informa PLC
This site is operated by a business or businesses owned by Informa PLC and all copyright resides with them. Informa PLC's registered office is 5 Howick Place, London SW1P 1WG. Registered in England and Wales. Number 8860726.
As you may know, this past weekend saw the Intrepid Studios team take to the airwaves for its annual Extra Life charity campaign fundraiser. In just 24 hours, Ashes of Creation fans and followers helped raise $88,546 to benefit Rady Children’s Hospital. Over the past four years of Extra Life campaigns, Intrepid Studios developers have helped raise over $144,000 to help kids in need.
This year’s event smashed its fundraising goal of $20,000 and brought in over four times what was originally planned. The developers are extremely thankful to their amazing community for their compassion in these difficult times. The money raised through the community’s generosity will go a long way to helping sick and injured kids.

Everybody won during this weekend’s festivities. Not only did our community score a big win for the kids, but it also benefited them. Generous donations unlocked a variety of milestones to reveal more about Ashes of Creation including the first images of The Ancients and some fun and silly rewards. In what may have been the most fun reward for participation, viewers got to see the “glorious Creative Director shave his beard live on the broadcast”. It just doesn’t get any better than that!

Steven Sharif had this to say,

“2020 has been a rough year for everyone, and I've often found that it is when we are at our lowest, we find strength in helping others. And despite the divisions that exist in our world, there is more that unites us than divides us. It has been truly extraordinary to watch our Glorious Community shine a light of hope for children in need, through these events. It speaks to the bonds of friendship that have formed for many of us during the development of Ashes, and the common humanity we share.”

If you’d like to embed the Intrepid Studios’ Extra Life livestream, you can find it here.

About Ashes of Creation

Set in a fallen fantasy world untouched by civilization for thousands of years our players will rebuild, repopulate, and rediscover this uncharted realm. Our world is ever-changing with ruins, beasts, and cities that rise and fall. Weaved into a progressive character system where players hold all the power, the fates of creation are yours to command.

Editors: Please feel free to contact us with any questions or requests for interviews and information.
Copyright © 2020 Informa PLC
                            Informa UK Limited is a company registered in England and Wales with company number 1072954
                            whose registered office is 5 Howick Place, London, SW1P 1WG.
