https://www.gamasutra.com/view/news/373243/Get_a_job_Join_Sucker_Punch_Productions_as_a_Narrative_Writer.php
Gamasutra is part of the Informa Tech Division of Informa PLC
This site is operated by a business or businesses owned by Informa PLC and all copyright resides with them. Informa PLC's registered office is 5 Howick Place, London SW1P 1WG. Registered in England and Wales. Number 8860726.
Get a job: Join Sucker Punch Productions as a Narrative Writer
The Gamasutra Job Board is the most diverse, active and established board of its kind for the video game industry!

Here is just one of the many, many positions being advertised right now.
Narrative Writer, Sucker Punch Productions
Location: Bellevue, Washington
Sucker Punch is looking for a Narrative Writer to join our writing team and help create engaging narrative content for our upcoming projects. Daily tasks will include writing dialogue and text, developing open-world stories, and crafting narrative content in collaboration with other designers. Our ideal candidate will have previous success as a game writer, outstanding dialogue skills, and an excellent understanding of how to tell impactful, character-driven stories within a AAA open-world game.

Responsibilities
Requirements
Pluses
If you feel this describes you, please submit your resume and portfolio of writing samples. The types of samples we’re interested in seeing are short character-driven scenes in screenplay format, mission scripts, dialogue barks, and/or in-game text such as quest journals, item descriptions, etc. These are guidelines, not requirements. Send us the samples that best represent your voice and skills as a writer, and we will look forward to reading them.
Interested? Apply now.
About the Gamasutra Job Board
Whether you're just starting out, looking for something new, or just seeing what's out there, the Gamasutra Job Board is the place where game developers move ahead in their careers.

Gamasutra's Job Board is the most diverse, most active, and most established board of its kind in the video game industry, serving companies of all sizes, from indie to triple-A.

Looking for a new job? Get started here. Are you a recruiter looking for talent? Post jobs here.
Related Jobs
Top Stories
Copyright © 2020 Informa PLC
                            Informa UK Limited is a company registered in England and Wales with company number 1072954
                            whose registered office is 5 Howick Place, London, SW1P 1WG.
