https://www.gamasutra.com/view/news/372849/Video_Designing_the_robot_dinosaurs_of_Horizon_Zero_Dawn.php
Gamasutra is part of the Informa Tech Division of Informa PLC
This site is operated by a business or businesses owned by Informa PLC and all copyright resides with them. Informa PLC's registered office is 5 Howick Place, London SW1P 1WG. Registered in England and Wales. Number 8860726.
Video: Designing the robot dinosaurs of Horizon Zero Dawn
Horizon Zero Drawn drew critical acclaim not just for its beautiful open world, but for its incredible robotic creatures.
In his GDC 2018 talk, Guerrilla Games' Jan-Bart Van Beek took the time to break down the process that defined the game's mechanical foes.
If you'd like to follow in Geurrilla Games' footsteps and make some unique monsters for your next game, you can watch Van Beek's talk in the video above, or for free on the GDC YouTube channel.
About the GDC Vault
In addition to this presentation, the GDC Vault and its accompanying YouTube channel offers numerous other free videos, audio recordings, and slides from many of the recent Game Developers Conference events, and the service offers even more members-only content for GDC Vault subscribers.

Those who purchased All Access passes to recent events like GDC already have full access to GDC Vault, and interested parties can apply for the individual subscription via a GDC Vault subscription page. Group subscriptions are also available: game-related schools and development studios who sign up for GDC Vault Studio Subscriptions can receive access for their entire office or company by contacting staff via the GDC Vault group subscription page. Finally, current subscribers with access issues can contact GDC Vault technical support.
Related Jobs
Top Stories
Copyright © 2020 Informa PLC
                            Informa UK Limited is a company registered in England and Wales with company number 1072954
                            whose registered office is 5 Howick Place, London, SW1P 1WG.
