https://www.gamasutra.com/view/news/373046/Guild_Wars_2_pauses_Steam_plans_to_focus_on_expansion_development.php#comments
Gamasutra is part of the Informa Tech Division of Informa PLC
This site is operated by a business or businesses owned by Informa PLC and all copyright resides with them. Informa PLC's registered office is 5 Howick Place, London SW1P 1WG. Registered in England and Wales. Number 8860726.
Guild Wars 2 pauses Steam plans to focus on expansion development
Guild Wars 2 was due for a Steam release later this year, but developer ArenaNet now says that those plans are on hold.
In a brief development update, ArenaNet announced that it has paused its efforts to bring Guild Wars 2 to Steam in the interest of instead doubling down on the development of the game’s next expansion and the conclusion of its current “living world” story arc.
“At the end of summer, we gave you a first look at the next Guild Wars 2 expansion, Guild Wars 2: End of Dragons. We have been overwhelmed by the response. Delivering this next chapter in the Guild Wars universe is our highest priority,” reads the update. “With this in mind, we’ve made the decision to put the Guild Wars 2 Steam release on hold for the time being.
“Our number one priority right now is crafting Guild Wars 2: End of Dragons with the high quality you expect and deserve. Additionally, we’re full speed ahead on delivering an epic climax to The Icebrood Saga that lives up to (and we hope exceeds) previous Living World finales.”
A Steam version of Guild Wars 2 was announced back in August as a way to expand the reach of the nearly decade old MMORPG. That now halted version, originally planned for a November release, wouldn’t let existing, standalone client players log in through Steam (or vice versa) but would allow players from both platforms to coexist in the same online world.
Related Jobs
Top Stories
Copyright © 2020 Informa PLC
                            Informa UK Limited is a company registered in England and Wales with company number 1072954
                            whose registered office is 5 Howick Place, London, SW1P 1WG.
