https://www.gamasutra.com/blogs/BrianHoffman/20201102/373010/The_Best_VR_Games_You_Can_Play_In_2020.php#comments
Gamasutra is part of the Informa Tech Division of Informa PLC
This site is operated by a business or businesses owned by Informa PLC and all copyright resides with them. Informa PLC's registered office is 5 Howick Place, London SW1P 1WG. Registered in England and Wales. Number 8860726.
The Best VR Games You Can Play In 2020

Virtual reality is no longer the stuff of science fiction. The technology has improved by a huge margin over the last few years, to the extent that VR content is now quite easily available, with the hardware to match. One of the industries where VR has begun to be introduced, along with gaming, is the online casino industry. It is especially relevant in the current scenario, where VR is being used to deliver the casino experience to players in the comfort and safety of their homes. Players can interact with dealers live, while also being able to play live casino for bitcoin. These innovations are already driving the online casino industry to greater heights this year, despite all that has happened with the pandemic.
Some VR games have already begun making waves, in terms of how immersive they are and how easy it is to get lost in them. At the same time, there are games across the spectrum, with titles for the super expensive and high-end headsets as well as the more basic and entry-level options. Thus, here are some of the games that VR enthusiasts definitely need to try out this year -
Star Wars: Squadron
Star Wars is always a popular choice for games, and this title from Motive Studios is a superb addition. You can play as either a Rebel or an Imperial pilot, with the combat simulation proving to be perfect for VR. It is not a VR-exclusive title, but playing it in VR is an experience of its own, as you can live out your dream of whizzing around in a TIE fighter or X-Wing.
Trover Saves The Universe
This is a game from the co-creator of Rick and Morty, so it is safe to say that it is funny, while also being wacky and downright weird at times. This title from Squanch Games actually feels a lot like a Rick and Morty adventure game, with aliens, different planets, weird missions, funny stories, hilarious voices and some bizarre situations thrown in as well. The game has been around since 2019 on the Nintendo Switch, PS4, and Xbox One, but was only recently added to the Oculus VR stable, in June 2020. It does have some of the nausea-inducing movements that are unfortunately common with VR games, but it should not be too much of a problem for VR veterans.
Half-Life: Alyx
Valve’s announcement and release of a new Half-Life title, and that too one focused on VR, was met with a lot of excitement. The Half-Life series has been one of the most popular ones ever, and it was thought that this game, which was Valve’s entry into the VR space, while also being the first new addition to the series in over a decade, would help solidify the VR gaming space. Thankfully, it has managed to live up to expectations and fill the gap that has existed since the last game came out in 2007. The physics system in the game is exceptional, with some mind-bending situations. The complex and head-scratching puzzles which became a defining feature of the Half-Life series are all there, and the horror of having to fight through zombie hordes, or of having to creep through an area for fear of being discovered, all remain as well. This makes it probably the VR game to play this year, and it is available for free as well for those who buy a Valve Index and HTC Vive Cosmos Elite.
No Man’s Sky
No Man’s Sky was one of the most anticipated VR games of 2019. It is an action-adventure survival game, with the player needing to traverse a huge and detailed game world, which makes it perfect for VR. It is already a very good game, and VR has taken it to another level, which makes it a contender for the best VR game of the year.
Related Jobs
Copyright © 2020 Informa PLC
                            Informa UK Limited is a company registered in England and Wales with company number 1072954
                            whose registered office is 5 Howick Place, London, SW1P 1WG.
