https://www.gamasutra.com/blogs/KonstantinSaetsky/20201103/373053/What_is_the_Unity_Asset_Store_and_how_to_make_money_on_it.php?elq_mid=100434&elq_cid=13558520
Gamasutra is part of the Informa Tech Division of Informa PLC
This site is operated by a business or businesses owned by Informa PLC and all copyright resides with them. Informa PLC's registered office is 5 Howick Place, London SW1P 1WG. Registered in England and Wales. Number 8860726.
What is the Unity Asset Store and how to make money on it?
I have been a publisher of the Asset Store for 4 years and would like to share my experience. I’ll tell you all you need to know to create an asset from the point of view of a programmer.
What is the Unity Asset Store?
This is a store where you can purchase assets for Unity such as 3D models, sounds / music, UI kits, shaders / particles, sprite kits, and tools. The Asset Store was created in 2010 and now it turned 10 years old! Almost every Unity project has assets, because they make the development process more comfortable and faster. If you have a desire, idea and experience with Unity, you can become a publisher and increase your passive (almost) income.
What do you need to create an asset?
Asset creation
So, you have chosen the theme and content of the asset, then you need to implement the idea.
There are a few things to keep in mind when creating an asset:
Documentation
High-quality documentation is the key to satisfied customers. When users’ questions are repeated — this is a sign that some answers should be described in the documentation as simply and clearly as possible. If users don’t write to you with questions and give you 5 stars in reviews, the documentation is excellent.
Before publishing
You need to create an asset in the Asset Store publisher panel:
Further it is necessary:
Previously, the publication and review of the asset took about 12–18 business days, the last half of the year takes 3–5 days.
An asset can be rejected for several reasons, the most common of which are:
— Low quality;
— Copyright infringement;
— Lack of documentation;
— Lack of demo scene.
If the asset is rejected, you can correct it according to the comments received, upload a new version and submit the asset for re-review. A second review usually takes 1–2 business days.
Asset published, what’s next?
Congratulations!
Now the asset can be promoted and for basic promotion I use:
As content for promotion, you can use the description of the asset and / or a demonstration of its features. In general, promotion is an optional thing. Some of the assets I didn’t posted anywhere, but people find and buy them, apparently tags in the store and Youtube play a big role here.
If you’ve published a paid asset, you need to support it.
Analytics
The Asset Store offers to use Google Analytics. To do this, just specify the Tracking ID in the publisher’s console. So you will be able to understand — the geography of your customers, page visits per today, dynamics of visits, etc. Convenient and useful tool!
User reviews
Positive reviews are important for users looking to buy an asset. Even if you got an 1 star, do not despair, politely contact the user and express your desire to help in this situation. Ask user to report the problem in as much detail as possible and provide your contacts. Negative reviews need to be dealt with and ignoring them is the worst option. In case the user will write to you and you will able to help him, he probably will change the rating.
Withdraw funds
The Asset Store supports 2 payment methods:
Pros and cons of the Asset Store
Pros
Cons
Results
After publishing my debut asset, the Asset Store brought me $56 in the first month. And in six months I have already received $316.8. I had no expectations for the Asset Store and I’m quite happy with the result. Especially that it is passive income.
In 4 years I have published 14 assets that bring me good extra income. For the most part, this is my Pet-project, on which I work in my free time from my main work and get great pleasure from it.
The Asset Store is a great platform for Unity developers, here you can find the tool you need, as well as design, implement and publish your own.
If someone is engaged in similar creativity, write, I will be grateful for your comments and feedback!
Related Jobs
Copyright © 2020 Informa PLC
                            Informa UK Limited is a company registered in England and Wales with company number 1072954
                            whose registered office is 5 Howick Place, London, SW1P 1WG.
