https://www.gamasutra.com/view/news/373044/Get_a_job_Join_Heart_Machine_as_a_Game_Network_Engineer.php#comments
Gamasutra is part of the Informa Tech Division of Informa PLC
This site is operated by a business or businesses owned by Informa PLC and all copyright resides with them. Informa PLC's registered office is 5 Howick Place, London SW1P 1WG. Registered in England and Wales. Number 8860726.
Get a job: Join Heart Machine as a Game Network Engineer
The Gamasutra Job Board is the most diverse, active and established board of its kind for the video game industry!

Here is just one of the many, many positions being advertised right now.
Game Network Engineer, Heart Machine
Location: Culver City, California
We’re looking for an experienced Network Engineer to establish and support multiplayer and multiplayer features for future projects at Heart Machine.
Join up and lead the development of cross platform online multiplayer gameplay through the Unreal 4 engine; from matchmaking to the core moment-to-moment experience, you’ll be crucial in giving our players the online experience they expect while helping build incredible worlds with our award-winning team.
Your Responsibilities
Your Qualifications + Skills
Heart Machine Offers
Flexibility in work location(s)
Interested? Apply now.
About the Gamasutra Job Board
Whether you're just starting out, looking for something new, or just seeing what's out there, the Gamasutra Job Board is the place where game developers move ahead in their careers.

Gamasutra's Job Board is the most diverse, most active, and most established board of its kind in the video game industry, serving companies of all sizes, from indie to triple-A.

Looking for a new job? Get started here. Are you a recruiter looking for talent? Post jobs here.
Related Jobs
Top Stories
Copyright © 2020 Informa PLC
                            Informa UK Limited is a company registered in England and Wales with company number 1072954
                            whose registered office is 5 Howick Place, London, SW1P 1WG.
