https://www.gamasutra.com/view/news/371735/Sponsored_Learn_how_AI_helps_counter_disruptive_online_behavior_in_this_free_webinar.php#comments
Gamasutra is part of the Informa Tech Division of Informa PLC
This site is operated by a business or businesses owned by Informa PLC and all copyright resides with them. Informa PLC's registered office is 5 Howick Place, London SW1P 1WG. Registered in England and Wales. Number 8860726.
Sponsored: Learn how AI helps counter disruptive online behavior in this free webinar
Presented by Google Cloud

All multiplayer games have friendly banter, but sometimes players take it too far. Disruptive behavior and environments can alienate players and even make some players abandon the game, but it doesn't have to be that way.
Join experts from Google Cloud and Improbable for a webinar, Countering Disruptive Behavior in Online Gaming, on Tuesday, November 17 at 12 PM ET. In this session and its following Q&A, experts from Google Cloud and Improbable will offer insight into how game developers can use machine learning to identify and mitigate disruptive behaviors in online games.
Register for free!
Speakers
Patrick Smith is the Machine Learning Solutions Lead for Google Cloud for Games, where he works on the strategy and development of industry specific solutions to bring the best of Google's AI research and technology to game developers. Prior to Google, Patrick lead and worked on a variety of data science and machine learning teams in the sports, financial services, and US Federal spaces. He is a long-time data & machine learning educator, publishing a book and teaching classes on the topics.

With a career-long focus on multiplayer games, I've taken a keen interest in how social play impacts KPIs and what new ideas can be brought to the current social space. Former projects include: Star Wars: The Old Republic, Elder Scrolls Online, Sniper Elite Franchise and SkySaga.
Find out more here!
Related Jobs
Top Stories
Copyright © 2020 Informa PLC
                            Informa UK Limited is a company registered in England and Wales with company number 1072954
                            whose registered office is 5 Howick Place, London, SW1P 1WG.
